Spark deployment to Databricks revision (#15363)
dotnet/docs: docs/spark/tutorials/databricks-deployment.md

1. In the Azure portal, select **Create a resource** > **Analytics** > **Azure Databricks**.

2. Under **Azure Databricks Service**, provide the values to create a Databricks workspace.
    
    |Property  |Description  |
    |---------|---------|
    |**Workspace name**     | Provide a name for your Databricks workspace        |
    |**Subscription**     | From the drop-down, select your Azure subscription.        |
    |**Resource group**     | Specify whether you want to create a new resource group or use an existing one. A resource group is a container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. For more information, see [Azure Resource Group overview](/azure/azure-databricks/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-overview). |
    |**Location**     | Select **West US 2**. For other available regions, see [Azure services available by region](https://azure.microsoft.com/regions/services/).        |
    |**Pricing Tier**     |  Choose between **Standard**, **Premium**, or **Trial**. For more information on these tiers, see [Databricks pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/databricks/).       |
    |**Virtual Network**     |   No       |

>     Select **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Create**.
```

4. The workspace creation takes a few minutes. During workspace creation, you can view the deployment status in **Notifications**.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Install Azure Databricks tools

You can use Databricks CLI to connect to Azure Databricks clusters and upload files to them from your local machine. Databricks clusters access files through DBFS (Databricks File System). 

1. The Databricks CLI requires Python 3.6 or above. If you already have Python installed, you can skip this step.
 
   **For Windows:**

   [Download Python for Windows](https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.7.4/python-3.7.4.exe)

   **For Linux:** 
   Python comes preinstalled on most Linux distributions. Run the following command to see which version you have installed:

   ```bash
   python3 --version
   ```

2. Use pip to install the Databricks CLI. Python 3.4 and later include pip by default. Use pip3 for Python 3. Run the following command:

   ```bash
   pip3 install databricks-cli
   ```

3. Once you've installed the Databricks CLI, open a new command prompt and run the command `databricks`. If you receive a **'databricks' is not recognized** as an internal or external command error, make sure you opened a new command prompt.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

2. The install-worker.sh is a script that lets you copy .NET for Apache Spark dependent files into the nodes of your cluster. 

   Create a new file named **install-worker.sh** your local computer, and paste the [install-worker.sh contents located on GitHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dotnet/spark/master/deployment/install-worker.sh). 

3. The db-init.sh is a script that installs dependencies onto your Databricks Spark cluster.

   Create a new file named **db-init.sh** your local computer, and paste the [install-worker.sh contents located on GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/deployment/db-init.sh). 
   
   In the file you just created, set the DOTNET_SPARK_RELEASE variable to `https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases/download/v0.3.0/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.3.0.tar.gz`. Leave the rest of the db-init.sh file as-is.

> [!Note]
> If you are using Windows, verify that the line-endings in your **install-worker.sh** and **db-init.sh** scripts are Unix-style (LF). You can change line endings through text editors like Notepad++ and Atom.

## Publish your app

> Next, you publish the *mySparkApp* created in the [.NET for Apache Spark - Get Started in 10-Minutes]() tutorial to ensure your Spark cluster has access to all the files it needs to run your app. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you publish the *mySparkApp* created in the [.NET for Apache Spark - Get Started in 10-Minutes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/data/spark-tutorial/intro) tutorial to ensure your Spark cluster has access to all the files it needs to run your app.
```

1. Run the following commands to publish the *mySparkApp*.

   **On Windows:**

>    ```cmd

Reviewer: @mairaw, should this be `console` or `dotnetcli` ?

Reviewer 2: Same comment as in the other PR

   cd mySparkApp

>    dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp2.2 -r ubuntu.16.04-x6

Reviewer 3: Same comments as other PR- do we want to update to .NET Core 3.0?
```suggestion
   dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp3.0 -r ubuntu.16.04-x6
```

   ```

   **On Linux:**

   ```bash
   cd mySparkApp

>    foo@bar:~/path/to/app$ dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp2.2 -r ubuntu.16.04-x64

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   foo@bar:~/path/to/app$ dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp3.0 -r ubuntu.16.04-x64
```

   ```

2. Do the following tasks to zip your published app files so that you can easily upload them to your Databricks Spark cluster.

   **On Windows:**

>    Navigate to mySparkApp/bin/Release/netcoreapp2.2/ubuntu.16.04-x64. Then, right-click on **Publish** folder and select **Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder**. Name the new folder **publish.zip**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Navigate to mySparkApp/bin/Release/netcoreapp3.0/ubuntu.16.04-x64. Then, right-click on **Publish** folder and select **Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder**. Name the new folder **publish.zip**.
```

   **On Linux, run the following command:**

   ```bash

>    foo@bar:~/

Reviewer: The code block wasn't closed.

```suggestion
   foo@bar:~/
   ```
```

## Upload files

In this section, you upload several files to DBFS so that your cluster has everything it needs to run your app in the cloud. Each time you upload a file to the DBFS, make sure you are in the directory where that file is located on your computer.

1. Run the following commands to upload the **db-init.sh**, **install-worker.sh**, and **Microsoft.Spark.Worker** to DBFS:

   ```cmd
   databricks fs cp db-init.sh dbfs:/spark-dotnet/db-init.sh
   databricks fs cp install-worker.sh dbfs:/spark-dotnet/install-worker.sh

>    databricks fs cp Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.4.0.tar.gz dbfs:/spark-dotnet/   Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.4.0.tar.gz

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   databricks fs cp Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz dbfs:/spark-dotnet/   Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz
```

   ```

> 2. Run the following commands to upload the remaining files your cluster will need to run your app: the zipped publish folder, **input.txt**, and **microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.3.0.jar**. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Run the following commands to upload the remaining files your cluster will need to run your app: the zipped publish folder, **input.txt**, and **microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar**. 
```

   ```cmd
   cd mySparkApp 
   databricks fs cp input.txt dbfs:/input.txt
   

>    cd mySparkApp\bin\Release\netcoreapp2.2\ubuntu.16.04-x64 directory 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   cd mySparkApp\bin\Release\netcoreapp3.0\ubuntu.16.04-x64 directory 
```

   databricks fs cp mySparkApp.zip dbfs:/spark-dotnet/publish.zip

>    databricks fs cp microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.4.0.jar dbfs:/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.4.0.jar

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   databricks fs cp microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar dbfs:/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar
```

   ```

## Create a job

Your app runs on Azure Databricks through a job that runs **spark-submit**, which is the command you use to run .NET for Apache Spark jobs.

1. In your Azure Databricks Workspace, select the **Jobs** icon and then **+ Create Job**. 

2. Choose a title for your job, and then select **Configure spark-submit**.

3. Paste the following parameters in the job configuration. Then, select **Confirm**.

   ```

>    ["--class","org.apache.spark.deploy.DotnetRunner","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.4.0.jar","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/publish.zip","mySparkApp"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ["--class","org.apache.spark.deploy.DotnetRunner","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/publish.zip","mySparkApp"]
```

# Deploy a .NET for Apache Spark application to Databricks

This tutorial teaches you how to deploy your app to the cloud through Azure Databricks, an Apache Spark-based analytics platform with one-click setup, streamlined workflows, and interactive workspace that enables collaboration.

> In this tutorial, you learn how to:

Reviewer: Nothing is listed under this.

## Download worker dependencies

1. Microsoft.Spark.Worker helps Apache Spark execute your app, such as any user-defined functions (UDFs) you may have written. Download [Microsoft.Spark.Worker](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases/download/v0.6.0/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz).

2. The install-worker.sh is a script that lets you copy .NET for Apache Spark dependent files into the nodes of your cluster. 

   Create a new file named **install-worker.sh** on your local computer, and paste the [install-worker.sh contents located on GitHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dotnet/spark/master/deployment/install-worker.sh). 

3. The db-init.sh is a script that installs dependencies onto your Databricks Spark cluster.

   Create a new file named **db-init.sh** on your local computer, and paste the [db-init.sh contents located on GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/deployment/db-init.sh). 
   
   In the file you just created, set the DOTNET_SPARK_RELEASE variable to `https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases/download/v0.6.0/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz`. Leave the rest of the db-init.sh file as-is.

> [!Note]

> > If you are using Windows, verify that the line-endings in your **install-worker.sh** and **db-init.sh** scripts are Unix-style (LF). You can change line endings through text editors like Notepad++ and Atom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you are using Windows, verify that the line-endings in your *install-worker.sh* and *db-init.sh* scripts are Unix-style (LF). You can change line endings through text editors like Notepad++ and Atom.
```

## Publish your app

Next, you publish the *mySparkApp* created in the [.NET for Apache Spark - Get Started in 10-Minutes](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/learn/data/spark-tutorial/intro) tutorial to ensure your Spark cluster has access to all the files it needs to run your app. 

> 1. Run the following commands to publish the *mySparkApp*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following commands to publish the *mySparkApp*:
```

   **On Windows:**

   ```console
   cd mySparkApp
   dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp3.0 -r ubuntu.16.04-x6
   ```

   **On Linux:**

   ```bash
   cd mySparkApp
   foo@bar:~/path/to/app$ dotnet publish -c Release -f netcoreapp3.0 -r ubuntu.16.04-x64
   ```

2. Do the following tasks to zip your published app files so that you can easily upload them to your Databricks Spark cluster.

   **On Windows:**

   Navigate to mySparkApp/bin/Release/netcoreapp3.0/ubuntu.16.04-x64. Then, right-click on **Publish** folder and select **Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder**. Name the new folder **publish.zip**.

   **On Linux, run the following command:**

   ```bash
   foo@bar:~/
   ```

## Upload files

In this section, you upload several files to DBFS so that your cluster has everything it needs to run your app in the cloud. Each time you upload a file to the DBFS, make sure you are in the directory where that file is located on your computer.

> 1. Run the following commands to upload the **db-init.sh**, **install-worker.sh**, and **Microsoft.Spark.Worker** to DBFS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following commands to upload the *db-init.sh*, *install-worker.sh*, and *Microsoft.Spark.Worker* to DBFS:
```

   ```console
   databricks fs cp db-init.sh dbfs:/spark-dotnet/db-init.sh
   databricks fs cp install-worker.sh dbfs:/spark-dotnet/install-worker.sh
   databricks fs cp Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz dbfs:/spark-dotnet/   Microsoft.Spark.Worker.netcoreapp2.1.linux-x64-0.6.0.tar.gz
   ```

> 2. Run the following commands to upload the remaining files your cluster will need to run your app: the zipped publish folder, **input.txt**, and **microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.3.0.jar**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following commands to upload the remaining files your cluster will need to run your app: the zipped *publish* folder, *input.txt*, and *microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.3.0.jar*. 
```

> # Deploy a .NET for Apache Spark application to Databricks

Reviewer 2: The template for tutorials show that the word tutorial should be in the title and H1
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/help/contribute/global-tutorial-template?branch=master

This tutorial teaches you how to deploy your app to the cloud through Azure Databricks, an Apache Spark-based analytics platform with one-click setup, streamlined workflows, and interactive workspace that enables collaboration.

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> Create an Azure Databricks workspace.
> Publish your .NET for Apache Spark app.
> Create a Spark job and Spark cluster.
> Run your app on the Spark cluster.

> Before you start, do the following tasks:

Reviewer 2: Why remove the prerequisites section? it's also part of the tutorial

Author: I think it was removed unintentionally.

   ```bash
   python3 --version
   ```

2. Use pip to install the Databricks CLI. Python 3.4 and later include pip by default. Use pip3 for Python 3. Run the following command:

   ```bash
   pip3 install databricks-cli
   ```

3. Once you've installed the Databricks CLI, open a new command prompt and run the command `databricks`. If you receive a **'databricks' is not recognized as an internal or external command error**, make sure you opened a new command prompt.

## Set up Azure Databricks

Now that you have the Databricks CLI installed, you need to set up authentication details.

1. Run the Databricks CLI command `databricks configure --token`.

2. After running the configure command, you are prompted to enter a host. Your host URL uses the format: **https://<\Location>.azuredatabricks.net**. For instance, if you selected **eastus2** during Azure Databricks Service creation, the host would be **https://eastus2.azuredatabricks.net**.

3. After entering your host, you are prompted to enter a token. In the Azure portal, select **Launch Workspace** to launch your Azure Databricks workspace.

>    ![Launch Azure Databricks Workspace](./media/datbricks-deployment/launch-databricks-workspace.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ![Launch Azure Databricks Workspace](./media/databricks-deployment/launch-databricks-workspace.png)
```

4. On the home page of your workspace, select **User Settings**.

   ![User settings in Azure Databricks workspace](./media/databricks-deployment/databricks-user-settings.png)

> 5. On the User Settings page, you are able to generate a new token. Copy the generated token and paste it back into your command prompt.

Reviewer 2: simplify text here?

```suggestion
5. On the User Settings page, you can generate a new token. Copy the generated token and paste it back into your command prompt.
```

   ```console
   cd mySparkApp 
   databricks fs cp input.txt dbfs:/input.txt
   
   cd mySparkApp\bin\Release\netcoreapp3.0\ubuntu.16.04-x64 directory 
   databricks fs cp mySparkApp.zip dbfs:/spark-dotnet/publish.zip
   databricks fs cp microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar dbfs:/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar
   ```

## Create a job

Your app runs on Azure Databricks through a job that runs **spark-submit**, which is the command you use to run .NET for Apache Spark jobs.

1. In your Azure Databricks Workspace, select the **Jobs** icon and then **+ Create Job**. 

   ![Create an Azure Databricks job](./media/databricks-deployment/create-job.png)

2. Choose a title for your job, and then select **Configure spark-submit**.

   ![Configure spark-submit for Databricks job](./media/databricks-deployment/configure-spark-submit.png)

3. Paste the following parameters in the job configuration. Then, select **Confirm**.

   ```
   ["--class","org.apache.spark.deploy.DotnetRunner","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar","/dbfs/spark-dotnet/publish.zip","mySparkApp"]
   ```

## Create a cluster

> 1. Navigate to your job, and select **Edit** to configure your job's cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your job and select **Edit** to configure your job's cluster.
```

2. Set your cluster to **Spark 2.4.1**. Then, select **Advanced Options** > **Init Scripts**. Set Init Script Path as `dbfs:/spark-dotnet/db-init.sh`. 

   ![Configure spark cluster in Azure Databricks](./media/databricks-deployment/cluster-config.png)

3. Select **Confirm** to confirm your cluster settings.

## Run your app

1. Navigate to your job and select **Run Now** to run your job on your newly configured Spark cluster.

> 2. It takes a few minutes for the job's cluster to create. Once it is created, your job will be submitted and you can view the output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. It takes a few minutes for the job's cluster to create. Once it is created, your job will be submitted, and you can view the output.
```
